.\" Copyright (c) 2024. License: same as dotfiles repository.
.TH GIT\-SITE 1 "2024-01-01" "Git extras" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
git-site \- open the current git repository in the browser at the hosting service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git site
[\fIoptions\fR]
.br
.B git site
.B mr
[\fIoptions\fR]
.br
.B git site
.B pipeline
.br
.B git site
.B pipeline\-new
[\fIoptions\fR]
.br
.B git site
.B pipeline\-run
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgit-site\fR opens the current git repository in the default browser at the
hosting service (GitHub, GitLab, etc.) using the remote URL. It converts
SSH remote URLs to HTTPS and builds the appropriate web URL for the current
branch, optional file path, and line number.
.PP
The
.B mr
subcommand opens the merge requests (or pull requests) page, with optional
filtering by current user and state.
.PP
The
.B pipeline
subcommand opens the pipelines list page for the current branch.
.PP
The
.B pipeline\-new
subcommand opens the "Run Pipeline" web page where you can manually trigger
a pipeline, with optional pre-filled variables from
.IR .gitlab\-ci.yml .
.PP
The
.B pipeline\-run
subcommand triggers a new pipeline via the GitLab API using
.BR glab (1),
with optional variables. Requires
.B glab
to be installed and authenticated.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show this help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-update
Run
.B git fetch \-\-prune
on the remote before opening the URL.
.TP
.BI \-\-remote " REMOTE_NAME"
Use the specified remote (default:
.IR origin ).
.TP
.BI \-\-file " PATH[\fB:\fRLINE]\fR"
Open a specific file, optionally at a line number.
.br
Format:
.IR path/to/file.txt:42
or
.IR path/to/file.txt:10:20
for a line range.
.SH "MERGE REQUEST OPTIONS (git site mr)"
.TP
.B \-\-me
Filter merge requests by the current user (GitLab username or fallback).
.TP
.BI \-\-state " STATE"
Filter by state:
.B opened
(default),
.B merged
, or
.BR closed .
.TP
.BI \-\-scope " SCOPE"
Filter by scope:
.B all
(default),
.B assigned_to_me
, or
.BR created_by_me .
.SH "PIPELINE OPTIONS (git site pipeline\-new, git site pipeline\-run)"
.TP
.BI \-\-var " NAME=VALUE"
Set a pipeline variable. Variable names are auto-completed from
.IR .gitlab\-ci.yml .
Can be specified multiple times for multiple variables.
Only applicable to
.B pipeline\-new
and
.B pipeline\-run
subcommands.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B git site
Open the current branch in the browser.
.TP
.B "git site \-\-file src/main.js:25"
Open the file at line 25.
.TP
.B "git site \-\-remote upstream"
Use the
.I upstream
remote instead of
.IR origin .
.TP
.B "git site \-\-update \-\-file README.md"
Update refs and open README.
.TP
.B "git site mr"
Open the merge requests page.
.TP
.B "git site mr \-\-me"
Open merge requests filtered by the current user.
.TP
.B "git site mr \-\-me \-\-state merged"
Open merged merge requests by the current user.
.TP
.B "git site pipeline"
Open the pipelines list for the current branch.
.TP
.B "git site pipeline\-new"
Open the "Run Pipeline" web page for the current branch.
.TP
.B "git site pipeline\-new \-\-var ENV=prod"
Open "Run Pipeline" with ENV variable pre-filled.
.TP
.B "git site pipeline\-new \-\-var ENV=prod \-\-var DEBUG=1"
Pre-fill multiple variables.
.TP
.B "git site pipeline\-run"
Trigger a new pipeline for the current branch via glab.
.TP
.B "git site pipeline\-run \-\-var ENV=prod"
Trigger a pipeline with a variable.
.SH "REMOTE URL FORMAT"
Supports SSH remotes such as
.IR git@host:org/repo.git
or
.IR ssh://git@host:port/org/repo.git ,
which are converted to
.IR https://host/org/repo .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR git (1),
.BR git-config (1),
.BR xdg-open (1)
